I hello everyone thank you for joining us today.
We're very very excited to be able to share something very special with all the air being the host.
Tune into this live webinar.
Our topic today is how to become a super host presented by Evan Kimberle one of every one of these top
super hosts in San Francisco.
He's going to be discussing his top tips for SBB be hosting how to automate your rental unit.
Inside though Evan is joining us from Asia today in his rental unit in San Francisco.
So he's a very deep expert on this topic here and how to keep yourself and your stuff safe.
And lastly how to make big strides into becoming a super host in your area.
First things first years we're going to cover a lot today.
So if you have any questions during the presentation you can e-mail them to us at Info and learn M.B.A.
dot com.
You can see the e-mail on the screen right there.
All right so let's get into it.
Evan has a very successful air meaning business in San Francisco as I mentioned before.
He has been hosting for a few years and has even made it as being the host training course to help others.
Today we get to sit down and pick Evan's brain about all things being be hosting live listeners.
Please stick around until the end of the web in our we have a very special offer for you.
We promise it will be well worth your time.
So without further delay I'd like to invite Evan to give us his insight and tips on how to become a
super host for air being.
So go ahead and take it away.
Awesome.
Yes.
Thanks for having me Jim.
And yeah I'm really looking forward to this.
Everybody who's listening.
Thanks for showing up.
Especially you guys on the West Coast.
I know how ridiculous the early it is right now.
You guys are really champing it out if you guys have any questions as I'm doing this just type them
and send them to Jim and we can get to him at the end.
I know sometimes I get all excited and I talk all to you.
So I put together a little bit of just presentation about some of the questions that people ask me all
the time some of the questions that people ask.
Gemma Lerner being be and I I want to start off by talking about how I got into being B because that's
a question a lot of people ask me.
It's always fun to like hear that Genesis story because everybody has their own story and you know when
you hear someone else describing how they got into it kind of like Brings back some of the stamina some
memories of how maybe you found it and how it could potentially change your life.
So yeah as Jim said I in San Francisco that's where my LBB is.
That is like ground zero for Air B and B that's where the headquarters is really first started.
That's where Terrance's going all over the news with being the last six months.
It's really kind of a hotbed for it.
So my story you know it's it's very similar to a lot of people moving in San Francisco.
I am self-employed.
I make websites.
I have a web development firm and we put together web sites and someone who is self-employed I don't
know if you guys listening or self-employed but it's just brutal sometimes.
Some months are and things are miserable and then you just sometimes you're through deserts and sometimes
you're just on an unbelievable high.
And so I mean I was moving out to San Francisco and I don't know you guys are familiar with this but
San Francisco is I believe you can correct me.
The most expensive city in the country for rent.
And I just pulled this off of a burger.
The average one bedroom in San Francisco right now is thirty four hundred dollars.
When I moved out to San Francisco it was like two and a half three years ago and the average one bedroom
was like twenty eight hundred dollars.
Like steal a bargain.
And now it's only gotten worse.
And I kind of had a little bit of a crisis when I came here.
San Francisco is a fantastic city.
It's a great place if you're in tech.
If you're a young professional if you're interested in working for startups and also if you're interested
in the culture and kind of the scene of San Francisco it's very iconic.
But there's a problem I mean it's a city that you have to break your bank account to live it.
I mean I know people who make $70000 a year and it's like Congratulations.
You can sleep in someone's kitchen because you need to put four people to bedroom because your rent
is just out of this world.
And so I kind of had a little bit of a crisis when I first moved here and I was like doing all I could
last year and it was not pretty.
It was just one of those things like if I had a car.
Oh I don't really know what my parachute plan was.
So you know I try to make do with what I had.
I tried to look for cheaper areas and I moved this area called fisherman's war.
And if anybody's been a tourist in San Francisco you've probably been to this area.
And if you're a local in San Francisco you probably just rolled your eyes when I said Fisherman's Wharf.
It's like hey it's like I sometimes feel like I'm living at Disneyland.
Like it's kind of that you know there's only so many times that you can watch you know eat at the Rainforest
Cafe or so many times that you can go to Madame Tussauds Wax Museum or you know you run out of pennies
that you could smash into novelty coins.
That's kind of the area.
And it's just like a tourist place.
It's beautiful but some of the locals don't really want to live in.
And I ended up in here because it's like it's about 30 percent cheaper than the other areas that you
can go back to that map up here.
It's like a mid range one they lump it in the North Beach.
Even this map doesn't care about Fisherman's Wharf.
It's right here.
But it's in between these two.
So it's still you know astronomical by normal people's standards.
But for San Francisco it's kind of like middle of the road.
So this really makes no sense out of context.
But the way I came out to Air B and B actually was because you know it's actually because I love talking
about the red problem in San Francisco and how ridiculous it is.
And you know lucky because they complained about it so much and you know my friends and my girlfriend
just tell me like oh we've heard this story like 10 times ever.
But people always suggest like hey maybe you should think about using air being bait.
And they say oh you know you can rent out your living room for 50 bucks or you know 75 bucks or whatever
it is.
The idea was like pick take the sting off your rent.
The problem was that when they said that I'd never really occurred to me that I could pay my rent with
Arabic.
I figured like oh I keep to 300 dollars a month.
That's not really helpful when your rent is so astronomical high and my rent was 3000.
I think it's risen to thirty one hundred now.
So that's not really something that doesn't really factor into the calculus like it's not like oh that's
my my white knight kind of situation or you know what I'm in a path putting if I wanted to come out
to San Francisco to turn and looking at hotels and then looking at hotels and like all of these hotels
around my area.
Well like $400 a night holiday inn $400 a night Hyatt $50 a night.
All these places even like hotels like Travelodge and things like that were just not very nice.
The eureka moment for me that really kind of brought me to Air B and B was actually I was like walking
home from I don't even remember where.
Probably just groaning in my head about my situation and it passed by this motel this ugly dumpy motel
that is right next to my apartment.
It is about a block away and just out of the you know really know what inspired me I walked in and asked
about how much it cost.
And you know motels like the man slash woman Garonne sat you know two hundred seventy five dollars a
night which I remember she's telling you that.
And that's what I have for a motel.
And then I asked her do you any vacancies and she said no it was like Ruhollah booked out a whole month
that was where I kind of realized something and that was that.
Wait a second.
I'm a block away from this place in a nicer space in a full apartment.
Surely someone would pay that over this dumpy motel of price gouging people on purpose.
And that's where I kind of made the connection and I know a lot of prospective Arab TV hosts out there.
They can have this problem when they think about getting on Air B B they don't think that their space
has value and they look around them and they're like I live here you know.
Why would anyone pay to live here or pay to live in an area that's decorated my stuff.
I had that same problem and it wasn't until I had one of the more extreme examples like this.
This dumpy motel to kind of knock me out knock me out of my senses which was that my apartment has value
and surely if I'm struggling to find a place for my parents.
People are also looking for a place and they don't want to pay $400 a night to save the holiday or 275.
It this place.
And that's all I got.
I honestly did this old thing week and a half.
I am a total nerd.
I work.
And you know I've been in startups with my pretty much my entire life.
And so I'm digable like testing and data and and I'm really kind of obsessive about the details of things
I do and I end up spending way too much time on my listing.
But I really kind of dove into it.
I started looking around the area I started studying other people's art looking at the amenities you
know kind of studying what people were doing right.
I mean I look at my competitors and I would practically memorized some of their reviews it's kind of
into what I got and how I do it.
I listen up my space and I had a decent reaction.
I think my first month I think you know I rented out I got maybe a thousand dollars and it just kind
of steadily rose from there as I started learning things as I started testing things out as I started
coming up with ideas and trying to implement them.
And I was like OK more experience.
There's a huge knowledge gap between hosts to have been hosting for a while and have been in the dirt
for a while and people are completely new to this.
There's a lot of skill and a lot of nuance to it.
So with that today that is a screenshot of my backyard that backyard right there.
Man that looks so much better than the backyard I've ever sat in.
But that's the that's the magic of photography today.
I've been well over 300 plus guests.
I know originally for a long time I thought that disco was just an oddity in terms of how great of an
opportunity this is for hosts.
Well and now I've actually helped launch five different properties so I've helped launch properties
in Oakland.
Not too far I've watched them in Buenos Aires Baltimore Denver Colorado and even itty bitty Lawrence
Kansas.
So I and every single one of those properties has absolutely blown out of the water.
The profit expectations.
So my my full time listing started off at $200 and I'd been hosting half years now and now the average
I run it up or is about 450 is not an area and not untypical but I have a night where I'm getting paid
$600 a night to rent it out.
And this is actually just recently about four months ago.
The issue of everything I put together all the tips and tricks and techniques and really everything.
Now I'm actually number one in San Francisco whenever you search just generically for the city for three
plus guests and even if you search for to show up there it is actually.
And that's what it's like.
It's like Christmas coming early.
And I remember about it about six weeks ago or two months ago I reposted my listing.
I rented out every summer every summer I travel so I travel for three months every year.
Last year I went to Bali and Borneo.
Right now I'm in Thailand and I'm doing small little trips into China and Taiwan and etc. etc. but so
I've listed it and I popped it up.
There's like you know ready for the summer season and I packed it up and did it in five days.
I booked $21000.
And that is just like I said accumulation of pretty much everything I put together.
And that is essentially that the whole experience I've taken and grown into a course and we'll talk
a little bit about that later.
That was a little Perouse shot.
I like to keep this when I should make this like my desktop background or something just like my little
badge of honor.
When I did this in all sorts of different dates and also different guys settings and etc..
Sahar hon I even thought like maybe I'm in search number one because I've logged into my account and
that and so I want to talk a little bit about it.
Jim's asked me to address the questions that you guys have specifically.
We're going to talk a little bit about tips for them out and I want to be a distinction here what I'm
talking about.
Tips for starting off I'm talking to you guys who are prospective posts people who are thinking that
their space and really hoping that they can have the best launch they can.
I know everybody out there still lists this and they want to start making money as soon as possible
and I want to have the best experience possible.
A lot of people don't want to hear that.
You know it could take time.
I mean to get to where I was it took two and a half years and two and half years of trial and error.
So I'm going to focus these five tips on starting out like when I launch a property what do I do and
what do I do that's work consistently because now whenever I launch a property I can get onto the first
search page easily within like a month.
I mean easily a lot of times it's been two weeks.
The more competitive areas six weeks two months if I relisted my apartment now you know I think probably
maybe three or four months to get to the front page as opposed to two and a half years.
So I'm going to focus these on people starting out and I'm trying there's a lot that I can talk about
be like best practices.
They go a lot of like common sense.
I try as much as possible to give you the uncommon information the kind of things that you never really
would have thought about or things that are just not standard things that only someone has been doing
for a long time and really really trying and iterating knows about certain.
It's called your booking to inquiry ratio.
Now all a lot of you even like normal host out there who have been hosting for a while don't even know
what this is.
Now there's a concept you need to understand that a lot of companies use whenever they have search listings
Air B and B you know you to me as an example they use a concept called velocity and velocity is a race.
Ever.
But it is this X factor.
You don't realize and what it is is they take the amount of time that it takes you from a launch to
get into a point where you're required booking wiring inquiries page views and reviews and the gold
standard like the golden rule everything comes down to this one booking the inquiry ratio that is how
you maximize your search ranking.
And I'm always amazed at how many people never heard of this.
So what it does is it's wintertime you get an inquiry.
You see it all the time right.
So when I ask you a question time it's in terrible English.
Sometimes it's horribly incomplete.
Sometimes it's their entire life story.
They are.
You need to focus on the ratio of how many inquiries you take and how many you book.
OK.
Now you have to think about it from air being the perspective when everybody is deciding who to list
in their search results.
Who do you think they want to show.
Do you want to show say a property that looks 50 percent of their people the people that Senate inquiry
or do you think they want to send it to someone who books 90 percent.
So that's something you need to keep in mind.
And I honestly whenever I help people with their listings I try to tell them that it's very very important
that you plan to cast your net as wide as possible if you want to maximize your earnings and maximize
your experience.
Now if you're someone who is only trying to do this part time then you still want to pay attention to
your booking to increase ratio.
But you will take a little bit more of a nuanced approach to it.
You aren't going to be accepting every single person you're going to be more mindful about your calendar
and you're going to keep in mind things like Don't ever decline guests do not ever decline guess guys
if you are hearing this.
Write this down.
It's never worth it for you to do that.
And that always hurts you but in general make sure that you are being mindful of how many people you're
booking and how many people are asking you about your property or about your space.
I personally try to book literally everyone and that is why my search ranking is so killer.
So that's a huge huge metric and actually kind of the rest of the tips kind of when you into that.
That's why I want to start with it.
The second tip I would say for someone starting off is that.
So first of all be aware of an editor when you first start off when you first list are being B.
You're going to be in like search page 8.
Right.
Like I do I have hosts all the time that come to me and say like I lost my property I'm not getting
any page use at all.
I can't even find my property.
OK.
I mean that's true and that's because you don't have social proof.
You don't have a review base and you don't have bookings on off and you don't even have that that conversion
ratio up above.
And so the thing is that you need to focus on what are the things that you can manage.
OK.
If if you land on search page 8 you're brand new.
What are the things that you can use to your advantage versus every other host out there.
Every other house has reviews every other host has social proof they have references they have you know
everybody's getting them search shoes.
But what can you do.
One of the things you can do makes a huge difference is your response time.
I know I'm sure a lot of you have heard this before if you read a lot about MBB but I don't think you
understand how how important it really is.
So a lot of people say like oh you need to respond within an hour.
OK.
I'm not actually talking about that metric that metric that shows up on your host's profile on your
home profile if you guys are looking at every area of the page and you go to the bottom.
It'll say how often they respond.
And it should be 100 percent.
If you're trying to be competitive you're taking it seriously and it's just say how fast they respond.
And the absolute best they can say is within an hour.
Right.
And so a lot of hosts go and they say Oh well as long as they responded in 55 minutes.
I always have that badge of response time but you need to take it a little bit farther.
OK.
The way I do it and I honestly I did all the testing on this.
You guys don't have to it's kind of ridiculous.
But this is a handful of a little too analytical for my own good.
What I started doing was I was testing when people message me and sometimes I'd respond in like a minute
sometimes responded five minutes 10 minutes 30 minutes two hours and I'd see the act.
Now think about it when someone messages you.
Chances are they probably message like five other properties right.
I mean have you ever looked on there being that you probably message multiple properties.
One thing that I am in on this is what I realized from testing this constantly is just how important
this is if they message five properties and you're like number four on their list in terms of their
ideal spot.
If you were immediately within 10 minutes within five minutes you are four times as likely to book them
now.
I mean you just think of it from a consumer standpoint I do this all the time like if I'm running out
of space say I'm running out for a family vacation or an eye.
Message five people.
One of the worst things about air being me is I have to wait.
Right.
Like hotels like in his book it and I'm done.
If someone responds immediately I can have a conversation with them and getting commission from them
before I even hear from the other ones.
Chances are and I'd say 60 70 percent of the time I'm always on an grps with the Kloner.
Now the way that you can kind of accelerate your ability to do respond very quickly is get a smartphone.
Honestly if you don't have a smartphone hopefully or at an age really everybody has a smartphone and
you're not walking around with the feature phone like a Motorola Razor but get a smartphone and attach
your phone to it.
Use the text messages and able send you push notifications.
A also sends you text messages and respond to text messages long before you can respond to the post
on the air in the app.
You need to get a phone get a phone actually trumps being tied to it.
Try being checking with it frequently.
I know that that kind of drives people crazy but you can tell yourself This is a business thing right.
Like I'm just trying to be successful I'm trying to pay my rent that's why I'm checking my phone.
And trust me though I understand.
But if you can honestly respond within a minute two minutes you will go from that page eight nobody
to all of a sudden this page.
Nobody of us is booking 50 percent of the people that they're there getting anywhere from.
That is a really great way to accelerate your search ranking kind of movement.
Are you sure growth get three upgrade your photos is another one that you hear quite often.
But I want to get a little more in-depth with it.
So that's another thing that you can use as a cost.
Other shows that are not nearly as brand new as you people who are established.
Now when someone sees your listing and this is one of the biggest problems I see with Neuhaus there
are so many people out there who post post their list and put a picture of their room and always in
portrait right.
They don't realize how bad portrait displays and their the is.
And they put you know maybe two photos and they're shocked when no one asked to stay at their place.
OK.
Well I mean obviously anyone who's hosted before knows that like why would you stay at a place that
only has two photos if honestly they didn't take the effort to take three photos or clicked the shutter
button four times.
Why would you want to stay there what does that say about the experience.
So trying to focus on getting out of the gate with the best photo you can and the way that I do this.
And you don't have to be super rich or super one percenter to be able to come off with great fantastic
studio quality photos.
I mean all lets you in on a little secret this is how I get it and when I started again I was trying
to wash my budget seriously.
I actually just went to Costco because Costco has cameras and I know that they have a 90 day return
policy for any reason any any reason any condition.
And then I went to Target and I knew if they had a 15 day policy any reason any condition on lenses
and say literally that's all I did I went got a fancy camera put it on my credit card and I don't feel
bad because I shop McCoskrie all the time so they make more money off me and I use my fancy camera and
I.
And this is a tip that I learned later flashbulb attachments you guys don't know what that is.
Go and search for flashbulb attachment flashbulb attachments are how they get your photos of.
Right.
By the way.
And I went and got a wide angle lens because I knew the wide angle looks good and furniture looks good
indoors.
And I had an SLR camera when it took all my photos in one day and then returned it the next day.
My photos alone were enough to get inquiries the first day.
I even had people mentioning hey you have great photographs.
Now a lot of people out there who are established hosts know that they're being be able to your photographs
for you.
This is true.
But you also don't know that you probably stumble upon that after you get to a certain point we already
have enough reviews that they're willing to come out and do this for you.
You have to get to a certain point in your hosting before they'll send a photographer out there.
I mean they're not going to send a photographer to anybody who thinks they're willing to host they're
going to send it out to people who actually put the effort into hosting and who are serious about doing
this.
So there's this kind of this image to me where you know you could honestly if you have a bad start you
could have six weeks two months before they deem you qualified to send their photographer out who takes
all your photos and honestly like 20 minute this is a great stopgap.
It's a great way to get your photos in between.
It's much much better than iPhone and it's still not as good as their photos.
But it's very close.
And I go into seriously depth into this in my course I even show you how urban be and I figured this
out just from having off the record conversations how they make your photos look like so saturated and
so with so much like boom to them.
You guys are what do the photos they look unnaturally good don't they.
I always call it like putting the MSJ in your photos like it it's just something tasty about their photos.
So yeah those are that's a huge one.
And that's something that if you plan correctly you can take advantage of right out of the gate.
That's going to give you the velocity that we talked about higher velocity will just sling Chuck forward.
Augmented more amenities and this is something I cover absolutely in depth in my course.
This is something that if you're coming from my course you probably are like rolling your eyes because
they talk about this so much I'm in love with augmented minute is what I mean by this is everyone who's
running out of space is probably going to get themselves like I can't compete against people who have
these systematic advantages.
People you know if you don't have a hot tub or you don't have extra space or you don't have really nice
fixtures or maybe you only have one bathroom as opposed to two.
You I think that I can't compete with other people.
Well there's ways that you can make up for that.
And this is just a want to see a long process of me experimenting and experimenting with like what are
things that I can pay for that are external to my apartment or things I can add that can dramatically
change how many people see my listing how many people book dramatically changed the value add when people
read my listing and stay at my place.
Two of my favorites are the air bed and the parquet air bed.
So I did a in the air and in breakfast.
The whole idea was you set up an air bed in your living room and host people for conventions.
But there's actually something somewhat to that.
So what one of the things I experimented with is that I have a three bedroom apartment.
Technically it's two but I was like Can I have a very large living room.
Burdett two if there are better they are experimenting with was how many more page views and inquiries
do I get if all of a sudden as opposed to being able to host six people I can just host eight or nine.
And I realize is absolutely massive growth in terms of how many people could see your listing.
But also when you get up into these higher categories of booking six booking eight booking nine the
competition up there where the air is thin is minimal because people just can't really compete with
that.
And so that's what the air bed is absolutely brilliant.
And in my course I talk about the really go and this is there's a video of me jumping on Arab heads.
And what exactly you need to get in an airbag and there's two main objections that people have.
This one is airbags are not comfortable.
People are paying a lot of money to stay here.
Now I would challenge you because if you were to stay on my air bed and this is a fancy air bed it's
a Seagate.
No it's not a see that's a hard drive company.
It's a front gate.
The front gate bad.
It actually is like a spin off of.
I think it's like a sharper image.
You know that a company that's like like Sky Mall.
But anyway it was a very expensive purchase like a $400 $500 bed.
And as a means of a switch and it literally assembled itself.
Now something that I learned from my grandma actually taught me all your True wisdom comes from it's
always your grandparent as you tell me that you know if you have an air bed and you put a topper on
top of it like 90 percent of people can't even notice the difference between that and sleeping on a
normal queen that they're going to notice it's not a temper P-TECH or what is it like the Caspar that
gets an airbag.
And so it's kind of packed like you can really all of a sudden go from.
I went for about six six people to eight people by having an inflatable that inflatable bed.
And all of a sudden I think I added 60 percent to my views pretty much overnight and Jevon view means
60 percent jump in bookings and I had a per person fee so my per night got higher and higher and higher.
The other one was parking.
Man 2 has just I turned the corner.
When I did that.
If you can start off right off the bat and offer parking especially in the that's going to go oh I don't
have parking.
Yes.
But there are parking garage.
So what you can do is you can go and add a parking spot and offer it to your guest.
I mean I had a part I think quite literally like a if you went and looked at my book last year and a
solid form mentioned the parking spot as a reason they huge I mean and obviously this doesn't work for
every single person.
Like if you live in an area that everyone has parking it doesn't really matter.
But these are augmented or amenities like do you live near a gym.
OK.
Can you get guest passes for your guests.
All of a sudden you have gym access.
Look for those things that you can and these are like look at your list see the things you can't change
and try to think of things that you can actually add it doesn't make a huge difference towards how many
views you get.
How many bookings you get on your inquiry to booking ratio in the city and then your last you know you
go off and it's all rainbows and puppies and all that.
All right number five is a no brainer pricing strategy.
So one of the problems a lot of people have when they start posting is that they start thinking of they
think of themselves like what is my my space worth I don't know what I should list my space for.
You know they had the same problem I talked of before or you just don't think your space has any value
and you just don't know where to start.
Like what do I say 200 or $20 is too low.
You got it.
It's like analysis paralysis.
And what I do is I always tell people start with a pricing strategy that is just like a dollar.
And what I mean by like if someone looked at your price it needs to make immediate sense and I offer
you give me examples of how you can do that in my course I have like eight but I go into more depth
of that.
One of them is look full on Expedia or Hotwire.
I think they're all like that same parent.
Look at what it cost for one bedroom.
What would it cost for a two bedroom and a calculate what you know in your head how much you think you
could charge for two people or four people where one of the equivalent is look at their of the list
and then try your best to every single amenity they have.
OK.
They have hotwater.
Good your hot water.
Curling iron.
Misty great to you because you know any little amenity you can think of that they expect in a hotel
try to match that.
And if you can match that that space like that.
Oh here you equivalent space and then lower your price.
Anyone who's looking at those two will know which one to book.
They'll notebook with you because they're getting the same exact thing.
Never mind all the intrinsic benefits to every TV set it is like having a host or having a local lowdown.
Book or because you're cheaper and better or level the alternative to that what you can do also is you
can also beat their amenities.
Look at the hotel right next to you beat what they have.
Add something else don't you know that's I go and buy a hot tub.
But there are a lot of augmented or amenities you can add in and then match your price.
So just match it to what they're doing.
Then again it's a no brainer.
This place is better.
This place is.
And the other thing I'd say is find a comparable property in your area.
And do the same thing to them.
Look for someone who has a decent amount or Cubase who has this most similar property be you.
So in my course they call it your doppelganger.
But really it's just like you want to find your arch rival kind of thing and try to beat them.
My archrivals name was Lance.
Hand you won't have amenities and then match their price.
And as a starting off property that's a no brainer right.
I mean that's how you overcome your lack of social proof your lack of head start.
OK.
And then I have.
You were not expecting a bonus tip I'm sure but a step this is something that I only suggested to people
who are pretty serious about this who really really want to make money and make money faster.
It's Don't make your first month.
Now that sounds counterintuitive but actually it's not.
Now if you understand the concept of velocity they're is talking about what I always suggest is focus
on that.
And so what you can month is quite literally go and calculate what you think the cost is just the cost.
Right.
You know what's the cost of utilities.
What's the cost of my rent.
What's the cost my mortgage or whatever.
Was it coffee individual things that I do for them or the individual we call variable costs and charge
that.
OK.
Now in order to make it so that people don't just run away with this next month and I an excellent 30
percent 40 percent.
Is that if you do this for your first month you are artificially subsidizing your space.
Someone sees it.
It is an artificial discipline.
No one can compete with that.
It's obvious you're just going to book everyone's book.
It's almost a fire sale.
Everyone's going to go for it.
And then what you do is you focus on the base focus on closing the gap between you and the rest of the
host.
And this is the Honestly my favorite thing.
I mean it's just this is how you slingshot your listing because you just have a six week period or four
week period and you can stomach that where you are not making any margins view honestly after six weeks
we'll have more traction then you're comparable property has in two years a strategy that I love using
I go into more depth in it.
But that is sufficient for you guys understand that concept.
Okay.
The second thing that Jim asked me to talk about was making things run smoothly.
Now this is more for people who are running it right now and maybe you guys are getting a burger now.
Maybe you're about to stay in the
well it's been in for the last six weeks and it will be for the next six weeks.
And I don't have I mean I have internet connection my phone doesn't work.
And I I'm managing pretty much everything.
Funny story.
I actually went and spent a month in Cuba.
I'm American.
So if you ever find yourself talking to Homeland Security this conversation never happened.
But I spent a month there and if you know anything about Cuba they don't really they don't have internet.
I think there's two places in the entire island that have a wife.
And that Wi-Fi only allows for five people to be attached to it at a time to get internet.
You have to wait in line and usually to wait in line like an hour to then buy overpriced Internet the
last 15 minutes.
So in the course of a month I checked my internet and I don't e-mail my internet because they're not
fast enough Maloja e-mail four times a month and I have booked out like 90 percent fill rate for that
month.
So it's it's possible it is very possible to put this on autopilot if you want to.
And so all cover kind of the tips I used to put together a system to do that.
And this is a question I get because a lot of people are drawn like.
Hope I'm in Boston.
This is the money I made this fall on things like that.
And I want to know how that's possible because a lot of people who are being teased are like this is
way too active and a lot of people have guides I've read they say like you can't be passive.
OK well it can be passive and there are some things that make it more passive and if you really want
to go to the extreme you can make it Foliott
so it never will.
I'm heiling incident.
Using a serve you don't have V-A is it's a virtual assistant.
When I say compile incident list I'm I'm such a nerd but this is what I thought I.
And this is one of the things that hosts and new hosts is a huge gap of information.
A lot of you hoes just don't know this but for people who've been Hosain haven't been around the block
for a while.
We know that like 99 percent of the interactions we have with our guests are the mandatory interactions
we have with our guests really only fall into like maybe 10 different categories.
I mean I what I literally did as I started taking an incident.
Every time I was message about something I took a note of what it was about and then I wrote a response
and I made a template.
And after about a year and about 150 guests or whatever I had come together with a with a list that
I was pretty happy with.
I thought covered pretty much anything and that gave me a really good idea of what exactly goes wrong
in my apartment so I can address them see if I can get a permanent exit number pops up again or what
are the things that are just always going to pop up.
And so I always need to be able to address them.
And are any of these things that like require me to be in person.
And that's the end goal you want to get to the point where none of these incidents require that you
be there in person.
Now the second part of this the one two punch is you can use virtual assistants who are not familiar
with that.
There's a lot of people you can hire on line who can use these templates use these directions and do
responses for you.
This is a great way also of being able to maximize your response rate while you sleep too.
If someone from Europe is trying to book your place you can't respond if you're sleep but a virtual
assistant can.
But what you can use them for primarily is that they look for incidents they look for a message they
get a message and you pay them per incident and you give them a template and they know and you can train
them very very quickly.
Do you understand when something's different or something's popped up they've never seen before.
And so you are very multifaceted I mean and when I take a virtual system honestly it could be someone
who lives in your area who wants to do it who's always changed their phone.
It could be someone in the Philippines who is available 16 hours a day.
There's a lot of different things you can use I typically use things like oDesk and there's a lot of
other firms that I suggest in the course that are are very useful and are kind of primed for this but
it's not going to take a large amount of time but once you have enough experience to know what the students
are very easily you can pass this over to an automated system where someone could send templates and
that and these kind of if there is a problem it essentially fixes 90 percent of it at a time until you
can respond.
So number two guy I know tourers guidebooks.
Wow.
These these are absolutely insane and this is probably what you might have heard this before is because
it's such an amazing pack of guidebooks.
So what I mean by this is every time someone shows up to your place they are number one interested in
how your space works.
And number two interested in what there is to do around the area.
Now I know for a while you guys probably have like a script in your head but you've gone through right
with every single guest.
I literally got to the point where I was like I had memorized my script every time I was checking in
aghast.
I don't even like the same suggestions and the same like punch lines and stuff.
But you guys know exactly what people ask.
You know what you know.
Good restaurants there are you know what trips are worth doing and what trips are not worth doing right.
These are things you can compile into a guidebook.
Now when I say Guide typically people's eyes glaze over and they're like I don't want to create some
high production value booklet.
I'm not a publisher I'm not a Kindle master.
And actually it's very very simple.
What you can do and this is the way that I do it and I always suggest doing it is there are quite literally
phone applications out there that you can create professional bound beautiful guidebooks for like $20
and you can make them on your phone.
That's how simple they are.
And honestly that the template I always use is you use a photograph from your space or from your area
you import it imported in and put ones that INS It looks so you know like eek and minimalistic.
You're just saving yourself tons of time.
What you do is you can compile those.
Right when I did this I didn't realize at first that there are these mobile applications or I did find
them.
I miss them and like every time someone would like ask a question or give them a new advice or new or
I want to get feedback and they say oh that restaurant was blank you know all import that into the guidebook
and then literally like every three months I just reprint it.
And after like six months I basically had enough information that I could print off a guidebook in that
guidebook and answered all sorts of questions like you know how do you turn on the heat.
How do you operate the oven.
Does the door lock ought to be all of the things that people ask me.
And I was that thing I could just go back through my incident list and look at all the things that people
asked me and I put those together into a guide.
Honestly 30 minutes 45 minutes go and read them all down.
And I present an offer of a direct to my door.
Those are fantastic.
Those honestly will reduce your management time.
70 percent of the time video tours this is another thing that can really be helpful.
No one does them it's amazing.
It just blows my mind what a video tour is.
When you book when a book or even as a incentive to get people books you can take a video tour of your
space just walk around film it talk about things and you can do the right things and you do one try
to sell them on the property where you could do another one which basically shows them how to acquaint
themselves.
Right.
I'm walking up to the door this is where I turn the key.
This is you know this is this room this is this room.
Here's the heat here's where I find the pots and pans.
This is what I do with trash.
Right.
And if you do that not only does it make them ten times more comfortable but your space in booking your
space but it reduces the amount of questions they have for you just considerably.
Right.
Because a lot of people you get are older or they just are not new to this whole thing that they were
literally a video they can watch you vignette that's immensely helpful.
And I know the kickback is always like oh but if I make a video I can tell that it's low quality and
no one will want to book with me and I'm telling you right now you don't need to be Steven Spielberg.
People are going to look at you listening.
They're going to see fantastic photos and it's always a positive.
If you have a video tour regardless whether you shot it on GoPro or an iPhone or a calculator like it
just doesn't matter.
Being able to show them that level of being a personalization and that level of this is real what you're
coming to Israel because everyone has anxiety and they show up.
Right.
Like what does thing doesn't isn't there.
I don't even find it.
Like what if I can't find the key.
Where's the host kind of things like that.
You can kill all those anxieties and make it such that they can their to be a lot more autonomous.
They can figure out things right.
And also I know a lot more experience house near one of the biggest problems is our guests who have
a problem.
Don't mention it and then they put it on your review video.
Tourists get rid of that.
A lot of that right.
Because you can cover anything.
Number theory the repeatable Oh it's nothing left.
This is of the ones that I kind of experimented with and I just tested it just to death.
All like favorite things you could do what it is is it when if you're experiment with this you have
gas and you give them a gift.
It's always something right.
Aren't they always ecstatic.
They're always happy.
It's it's amazing and it doesn't matter what you give them it's the fact that you gave them a gift it
makes such a difference in their experience.
All of a sudden it's like yes this is the reason why book LBB.
Yeah.
Although the reviews were for I call this it's an experience smoother.
And the reason why I put this into automation is because it's one of the things that you can deploy.
And if you deploy it consistently It's always something that will minimize the amount of complaints
or issues that you have it's always something I mean I've had people have issues and then you get a
gift and all of a sudden they just it's just like water under the bridge right now the reason why I
call it.
Oh it's nothing.
And why say it's repeatable is because what you can do is you can find and put together some kind of
a gift package something that has personality so that everybody likes and you can try to minimize the
cost and then buy in bulk and give it to everyone.
I know this sounds like mass manufactured but I mean not really.
I mean if you're focusing on maximizing their guest experience then this is not actually a bad thing.
I mean it's something that really does whiten there it automatically improves their mood.
Even so I don't give you an example what I do I give a bottle of wine and I give some chocolates.
Now the reason I picked those two is because while one reason everybody like chocolate and if they don't
like chocolate they like wine.
Unless you get some like super religious couple that can't drink.
And they brought their dogs so they're afraid of opening the chocolate.
They're really like outside kids but they always love that does it.
That's a very good guess right.
And even if like the 15 percent of people who don't use the either one of that you still get the boost
the bonus rate of something like the sky's really the souces right.
And then I added some personalization to it.
So I live in San Francisco and we're right around Napa Valley and Sonoma Valley.
And so what I did was I bought my favorite wine and it comes to an area called low dog valley low down
valley.
It is like the I know the younger sister to Sonoma and Napa.
I don't want to call it the ugly little sister because I think it's pretty but it's not always pretty.
The other.
And I got them is a bottle of wine that I love it's the Zinfandel.
And I always put this note right.
Like everybody gums for Napa Valley but they don't know that Lodi Valley is much better and cheaper.
And so I put that and like all of a sudden it's like oh wow this this guy is local.
He knows what's up.
And he gave us the lowdown.
What a great personable like localized gift.
Let me get specific to the areas that are there experience.
And also people all the time say like oh you know like we're just so crammed for time we never get to
vacation.
And we just it really was terrible that we couldn't go see Napa Valley.
But the fact that we got to drink it's unfindable from the area and from an era you say is better.
That just made it up to them.
Right.
It's like it you have to go now I want to chocolate's I live right next to your deli Ghirardelli Square.
I'm not originally from San Francisco so I'm pronouncing that wrong I'm sorry I'm from Kansas and I
live right down the street from it.
They have these little squares here of Ghirardelli Square is that everybody likes and they're very I
caught a lot in common see the Ghirardelli Square.
Literally like what I started doing.
How would you go down there.
And this was kind of boring and they had these people handing out free squares.
And I would just walk past them and just walk in circles until I had like 10 to 15 of them and then
I'd go and put them in a band.
And I put them in all nice 10 and give them to the guests.
They love that right.
Everybody loves chocolate.
Like oh something went wrong.
He broke but I have chocolate and that's kind of like the response you see it's a it's experience smoother.
And then obviously when I started doing it buying in bulk and I both got it reasonable and that and
that's you know I it's like a $7 gift for me like that wine plus the chocolates in it being like 750
or something like that.
So literally when I book someone I like factor that into my costs like oh they booked it for you know
$300 a night.
Well it's more like 293 because I got to give them the oh it's nothing.
Yes.
So that's one of those things and then my course talk about how you can figure out what's a good gift
for your area.
How do you find ways of getting it cheaply and repeatable.
Number four check out times and buffer zones check out times while when you first start listing everything
be it's very important that you try to be flexible and you check out times because again remember we're
sitting at a disadvantage you shouldn't have minimum days and you shouldn't have check out and check
in times because you want to capture as many people as possible because you want to get the bookings
on your system and get that search credit so that you can actually start getting serious amounts of
inquiries.
But once you start to automate this and once you have a little bit of experience or a little bit of
social proof interview base then you want to start actually enforcing your check in and check out times.
That's really important.
If you try to travel abroad with flexible check in and check out it's not going to it's not going to
work when I have flexible check in and check out.
It was literally seven deep for the management.
I had to deal because literally that's only like my check out to let me get to the other guest.
Now I checked the other guess I'm than now.
And then I got to second guess.
Then say no actually can I check in early and then I to like figure out who wins in the check.
It's just it's not worth it if you tell them upfront what it is.
They know when they have to be out.
They know that they can be in makes it that much easier.
Buffer zones then are incredibly important too because you need to figure out how many things have to
change in between things.
And how long is that going to take.
And always give yourself more time buffer buffer buffer.
I mean like you might think oh it's terrible that someone has to check in after 3:00 p.m..
Well I mean that's much better than your cleaner is late 45 minutes or late an hour or sick and you
have to scramble to get it clean.
They show up and it's dirty much better scenario where they just know that they can't come through.
And like you know show them ways places to drop off their bags don't let them drop off the bags to Michaels.
So those are really important if you want to keep your sanity and you want to keep the trains moving
on time.
And if you have those honestly then it's just like all of a sudden the check out check in.
It's a nonevent.
Number five this is a mental exercise that I would suggest to host to do try to identify all of your
moving parts.
And now what do I mean by that.
Try to identify all the things in your apartment that have to change from listing to listing or from
booking the bookings or what has to move in order to satisfy the next booking.
OK.
Chances are you have to wash the sheets right.
You need fresh towels.
In my case I have to swap the keys out if you.
The next question I have to give my parking pass to the next person you have to.
There's a lot of things that you you would be surprised that you have to kind of catalog in your head
about what's in a change.
OK.
And once you've identified all those moving parts it makes it so much simpler because in my case like
I really only have four things I guess it's Lenins.
It's the gift and it's the sum of the things that the check that the cleaner has to do.
Does that mean that I actually listed those out and realize that's the only thing that actually has
to change became a lot easier for me understand how it made it because that's all that I have to address.
So all I have to do is kind of the system for making sure that each one of those things was in the right
spot and if it wasn't how to find out how to get it and the next person.
So once you can boil that down then you know what the moving parts are and then you can incorporate
those into your buffer zones and incorporate those into the system that you built into how you train
your cleaner or what you tell them how you do this because they know what to focus on.
And it just gives you peace of mind.
OK.
So the other question that Jim wanted me to go on chip here and I'll be honest this is a question.
I mean I get this all the time.
My course has thirty five hundred people in it.
And this is a question that I get frequently.
Matt there's one thing I need to understand and our perspective hosts are probably like peeking their
ears right now thinking like oh yes this is the number one question preventing me from hosting what
you don't understand is that the only people who ask this question Are prospective hosts the people
who have hosted once never asked this question again.
I've never had someone host and then ask me this question.
It's because it is just so.
Once you do it it's like oh it's just not.
It's so much simpler than you think.
It's not as big of a deal as you think.
But there are ways of minimizing the anxiety around it.
I mean a lot of people do you have any anxiety about how they keep their space secure.
What happens if something gets broken whenever something disappears.
OK.
So I compiled some tips for at least giving you peace of mind and how I tackle the problem.
So number one you need to understand that the host guarantee works.
This is usually kind of the Corker in this conversation.
So we will give you up to a million dollars in damage rectification as an insurance policy that as long
as you have hosted with Air B and B they're going to give you.
OK.
And a lot of people don't are saying what this covers and I'll be honest it's not something that like
tons of people know intimate details about because how often do you even have to use it.
I have the luxury of knowing these things because I have multiple properties and I have thousands of
students.
They cover everything you could think of.
I mean they cover fast fire damage damage to anything really your walls pay outs for white noise.
I mean they don't cover if a meteor hits your place.
Right.
But your homeowner's insurance won't cover that anyway.
Did you notice that like what are the things that you're worried about happening.
Is it them feeling something from you.
OK.
Well that's covered in the host guarantee.
So give me the money the outback.
You heard about damage.
Ok well as you know the covers that nearly done has to be a concern as if your house is over a million
dollars.
Right then it's the potential of that burnt down your house.
You only get a million dollars back out of your 10 million dollar house Mitt Romney.
So if you understand how you know this this guarantee works that kind of gets rid of 90 percent of the
issues here they cover really anything and evidently is a very good company to work with.
They are very understanding.
They are very helpful and they're not out here to make a margin.
They're not like you know say another sharing economy companies like Uber who apparently has different
incentives.
Every reason they're very good about this.
Honestly I mean they have they always rectify the situation.
They get a lot of flack for what happens.
You know in the press but if you also reading between the lines they're always there.
I mean they've gone above and beyond to help people in bad situations.
It's just the press honestly does not does not always give them a fair representation.
So number two you need a lot of your space.
That's something that every host has to do.
I mean you just understand that if your guest you're putting a space you don't want to come into a space
that has pictures of your family everywhere.
The soccer photos or you know your poster of your favorite band from when you're in sixth grade and
things like that.
And that's a sacrifice that you have to make people when you list you need to make it a little less
personal lives because it's just kind of weird and you like take over someone's life and you're sitting
in their living room.
So you you know you've taken over their bodies.
But one of the things he knew to do and it's just standard practice you needed your space.
And so when you do that you'll make an identification list of things that would be valuable to you if
you had a book say lost it.
I always say move that to the side honestly and you might think like that doesn't solve the problem
you just kicking the can down the road.
But the problem isn't that the steps are going to get stolen is the fact that you have anxiety about
it because I can cover all the reasons why the anxiety is not logical.
I mean it's reasonable that it's not logical but if you move to the side say well you take all your
valuable stuff and you put it in one closet.
It's much easier to mentally manage.
You can think to yourself oh this one room and it's locked away.
No one can ever access that.
It's got all my stuff where I have this closet.
Everything is in that closet.
And they don't have that worry like oh maybe someone's going to accidentally stumble upon my stash of
treasure.
Right.
And honestly this isn't really a huge problem.
You're like Scrooge McDuck and you just stored gold coins everywhere and you've lost track of all of
them.
Use it all say for small items.
So the big the the one point you'll get me to agree with you on whether if there's a security issue
with there have to be is the small items thing and I'm going to talk about the next point a little bit
more.
But one of the ways that you can help with small items is you know some small items can have very high
value like your phone like your jewelry.
You know all the mementos are your you know your your grandparents World War Two miles as you can get
a small safe and put those in a safe.
And these are surprisingly cheap.
You can get one to Ace Hardware or whatever hardware store you're near for cheap but you get them on
Amazon honestly and they're even with shipping that's like $40.
It can be a small save with a button that you press and then you open it up and it can fit in more than
you'll ever need.
So you don't need like a gunmetal safe to store all your stuff.
But you can at least feel safer about the small items because you can you can put them away.
And these are assuming these are things like you never bring with you or maybe if you're hosting a shared
space so you can leave the house they're carrying everything you own on you.
OK.
So this brings me to my other point.
This is the way that the most effective way that I tackle the problem.
The biggest issue with security would be is there could potentially be small items that are stolen that
you do not realize.
Right.
That's the insidious problem right.
It's not a problem of my TV is missing.
Like they stole my computer.
It's an issue of.
They swiped my iPad.
Where are they.
You know something small and valuable is missing and what can happen.
And this is where it becomes a problem is if say a back to back bookings.
What if you don't realize something's gone until five bookings later because of this item when you don't
see it every time you walk into the room.
So what exactly do you do.
There's the way that I did it.
And it's very effective.
You have when you have your cleaner come the first thing they do is they have a checklist.
They go through your space and they look for all of the things that you have said are very valuable
to you and they make sure that they're there.
They literally go and physically you know identify it and confirm that it's there.
And I always have my cleaners do videos too.
That also helps with any damage claims they can show videos of it because you know if your screeners
know exactly what you're talking about but after a couple times and know exactly what it is and you
can watch the videos my cleaner they're hilarious.
It's always like that.
Yes.
Your computer is still here.
Your TV is still on the wall.
But if I didn't have that.
Honestly if something disappeared I would have no idea who did it.
And that is as good as gone and there being be Unfortunately I don't know if they would cover that because
it's like oh it's gone.
I don't know who took it.
I don't know when it was gone but trust me it was here.
So you want to avoid any kind of gray area.
That's how you do it.
That's how you know every single thing there.
And if it is gone then you know how to use the guarantee.
And you know you use your security deposit.
And also you know honestly there's one thing I always think about if you have something that is like
value lists like Memento if family heirlooms that is something you might consider using save putting
in a safe.
Or if you can't put it in storage just there are things just in case.
Right.
Because even if it really can give you tons of money for it is it really good to make up for it.
So if you do have items like that then I think it is worthwhile thinking about ways of moving those
or securing.
So this is one thing.
A lot of people don't realize it's going to shock me.
They learn things every week.
This like a couple weeks ago.
If you really wanted to you could get extra insurance like vacation rental insurance and it is not very
expensive.
I like my you know my apartment is probably worth like because of San Francisco like a million dollars
if I wanted to cover every lease.
Million dollar policy cover everything in my building.
I think my quote was like $130 a month.
Like it's really not very expensive.
Right.
And if you own your home a lot of people say oh my home I can get home you know home insurance homeowner's
insurance and well that's a good idea to get additional because it's so cheap right like homeowners
insurance is very cheap on a month to month basis.
That actually I don't usually suggest doing that because a lot of insurance will deny you if you have
stipulations your agreement about renting an air B because they'll see it as a business but look into
extra insurance if it really something that you think is worthwhile.
If your building is more valuable than a million dollars.
Think about this.
Think about using additional insurance Oh and yes.
So what I've been doing with myself for the last like four months I'm sorry I made a course.
And on that course I talked in-depth about every single thing I know about it.
And the reason why I came of this course was because you know at a certain point like I had plateaued
as a host I was just doing really well and I think I had a friend who made online courses he just said
to me like Evan you're the you have thought about Irby league more than anyone had ever met.
And so it kind of became like an exercise for me because I wanted to make all my horses and some some
kind of experiment to start with.
And so I started with aerially and I put everything I knew into it and ended up being like 15 hours
of content and 118 lectures and I'm adding to it every week as I think of more things.
And so I put that together and that is something that is a fantastic resource if you guys out there
want to have a comprehensive understanding of coming a host or replicating my success.
And honestly the reception I've had is fantastic.
Like I have 30.
Thirty four hundred students.
I have 600 plus discussion threads.
So there's 600 discussions between hosts about what are the best things to do.
What has happened.
What are some of the things they've never thought would happen that happened or what are the best practices.
Everything like that.
And honestly I'm on their way.
I interact my students every single day.
My average response time is like 30 minutes.
The responses I give out my phone number to to my students.
I've had them call me during hosting emergencies and I work with everything.
One of them because I honestly love doing it.
It's so it's great for me because like I want to perfect my craft and it always just amazes me how different
scenario is that can happen and how I can everything I can get better at it.
But also the thing is that when you start off there's just like no reason that you have to go see that
trough of sorrow we're trying to figure out everything on your own or say you're a host that just plateau.
Honestly you can just take my course and learn every single thing.
I did listen to it on the weekend.
Implement it that way you can honestly.
One of the best things I've had throughout this entire course are some of the turnaround stories I've
had with guests.
I'm sorry I was out with students like literally this week.
I have a guy named Brian.
He's hosting in Nashville Tennessee and he bought my horse and he said to me and Evan I've had my thing
up for like two weeks.
I've only been getting a couple inquiries and I haven't made a single booking.
And over the weekend he took my entire course.
He listened to it I'm like two x playback or something.
So he listened to me sounding like a chipmunk.
Guess I took the entire thing took my listing took all of my tits I literally went to his thing and
confirmed every single thing he did went to my listening imported it in copy my templates from my descriptions
like templates for photos like comments everything.
And he did it.
So he took the course Saturday Sunday took the changes.
Posted it on Monday on Tuesday he booked $5000 and so now you go and look at his list.
It's it's currently like Swiss cheese because he's almost at 60 percent fail rate for the next four
months and he's and he's charging six hundred dollars a night.
So it's that's the thing.
It's like a lot of people they start and they have a horrible beginning and they hit page 8 and they
give up and honestly and that's why if you look at host there's so many hosts out there who have just
given up and you know the thing is you can be successful really with any space.
You know maybe you don't make hundreds of thousands of dollars but you can make it worthwhile and make
it seriously improve your life.
And the other thing I said it was I have fifty four or five star reviews.
I'm holding my breath until someone posts and says Evan you've done a terrible job.
I want my money back but that's never happened.
So maybe you can be the first one.
So yeah that's those are the questions that Jim wanted me to cover.
And I hope I've done them justice I think.
Live viewers I'm at your mercy.
And wow that is a lot.
A lot of great stuff you just dropped on us right there.
I think it is with SBB boot camp and the like think this is only a very small small portion of your
course.
I hope now that drill sergeant.
No it was it was amazing.
I'm sitting here like I'm ready little tips for myself for for I'm for our little business here.
So it's fantastic.
Awesome information.
I like to go over a few questions and then take questions from the audience so.
Audience do you have any questions you can e-mail them to info learn Air B and B is going to be around
for a little bit.
We're going to answer some life questions that I have and then whatever you guys like to contribute
as well.
So let's just jump right into them.
Evan what's been like your most costly mistake as an heir being the hostess you know.
Was it waiting too long to do a certain thing or to purchase something or you purchase something you
shouldn't have purchased.
You know what's been the biggest mistake costing the stakes for you.
Yeah.
I mean part of the problem being so testy when I tried a test match at Feigley a bad angry person.
But I test everything.
And so a lot of times to test things they don't work.
That is true.
Like when I play around with our response rate Oh yeah I left the money on the table so it's kind of
like my pain is your game.
This type of situation.
Yeah I did have lots of situations like that.
I've developed quite a thick skin towards you know like bad things that have happened.
Like I think one of them more expensive things.
I've made mistakes with the like for instance not paying attention to price fluctuations in your area.
And I've had situations where like people will come and they'll look out the space and they kind of
have this like attitude like they came from the RBO and I don't know if you guys are familiar with the
RBO but you booked a place and you don't pay till you show up.
Right.
And so I have this thing.
They show up and they're like me.
I'd rather pay double for the Hilton or something like that.
Right.
Or or the like or the hotel down the street for some reason dropped 80 percent of their price.
That at any one time.
So yeah that was one of the things I guess not having my finger on the ball a couple of times had caused
me some issues and I guess I was more expensive.
So what are the things I have to think about because I'm sure there's tons of things that have lost
money.
It's just like one of those people that I look at the money it deposits and the money that could have
deposited Yeah.
And that's good that's a good way to look at your business you know.
Cheers.
Buy some more lectures and come without costing mistakes and things that not tests you know obviously
because you've taken the time to do that.
And it's great that you know people can sit on your shoulders and really see what is the opportunity
for an awesome and excellent air being the host.
Our next question I have is like what's the biggest headache you face as being a remote area in the
house keys.
He's the man that has a conversation.
You do not want to get like a message you do not want to get stranded guests.
I've had them go out drinking and get locked out.
And he off the whole family's been locked out before.
And the reason why this is my my pain point is because my building was built in 1914 and so my locks
are like straight up like Civil War era.
They are super old and so there's only like two keys that could open the space.
And so whenever people ask me like oh how do I automate the swap process.
I always direct people for some really cool technology that's come out last year.
There are automatic lock systems which are absolutely kind of blow my mind was a Kickstarter program
that came out in the locker Tron.
Another one is called Open Sesame.
And there's a couple there to go on Amazon and look for electronic locks and what they are are these
locks that retro fit to the back of your door.
So if you have a traditional deadbolt or just a traditional door with a tangled nipple the current they
can literally attach to the back of it and then automate your lock system.
And the way that they work is they detect when someone is near the door with their phone and that person
can text message open the door and they can hold their phone up with Bluetooth.
I think they can if you have an iPhone it uses like that air play Magic.
And like they like six different ways you can get in the door and ways that you could authorize like
who you want to let in during what periods of time.
Also it tells you who comes in who comes out.
This is a problem for me because my door is so all that they don't make a system.
It's going to be able to hire people to handle my this like antique door that I have.
Both people have had really really good success automating that system and it works.
Honestly like situations where a lot of my guests are out of country and so they don't have a workable
phone.
Well they can what you like walk down to the coffee shop and use them like a log in just log into like
a public computer or anything like that unlock the door as long as they have access to it that you gave
it to.
Right.
Or they can message you in some way contact you and you can remotely let them in.
So that's a fantastic resource if you can do that for your door.
Much better than what I did for a year which is like stick the key under the mat which the security
people that people are worried about security are just like are you holding your breath after I said
that and I was calling out the smartest thing in the world and it had a lot of problems.
I was like oh I made it.
Maybe LOX is going to save a lot of headaches for a lot of people.
I like that you can track who is coming in and out of your place of how often.
That's a very good little feature of those things.
You mentioned the the air bed and the know high quality air bag what are some other really good investments
that your air B and B unit that really makes you stand out.
Or if I'm to send it out like what is what is one thing you're glad you put the cash outlay for and
it's like paid you over 10 times the amount and I read the parking was a fantastic example the parking
I paid a hundred dollars a month and I can literally quantify the amount of bookings that got me per
month.
And it was it was Evely you know 10 x 15 x it's great.
Yeah I mean there's other things like that like what I started doing was people of this one I got.
So people go to Alcatraz and Alcatraz.
You know it's a big icon right.
Well think about Alcatraz the book's out early so I started doing was like buying tickets in bulk and
being like hey come here I have the Alcatraz tickets last second.
So go to Alcatraz right.
I like a ticket scalper things like that.
Right.
Like really like who else can compete with that who cares enough to compete with that.
Yeah you know mean for sure yeah I mean I.
Oh man.
You know disappointing is what people like show up and they're like oh we want to see Alcatraz.
We didn't realize you had a book at a month in advance.
Yeah.
And then all of a sudden you are the hero.
But yeah things like that like that all augmented on my course or just go over like tons and tons of
these things you can do are good.
Those are some good ones because I didn't even think about buying tickets so that's a good idea.
They do so out sooner or earlier.
What are your thoughts on using automated pricing or do you prefer to keep it very simple and just have
maybe three or four prices and just check on special events.
What are your thoughts on the automated pricing trends that we're seeing nowadays.
Yeah.
And it's sort of a lot of these like service tools that are popping up for everybody trying to handle
cleaning management messaging pricing.
I am lukewarm on pricing and it's one of the things a lot of my students asked me about like if you
tried this.
You know such and such service.
And the reason why for me is because my personal experience they haven't been particularly helpful.
So for those who are not aware if you when you log in you're a B B B and B will suggest a price for
you and b b have a lot of data to work with and for a lot of people they're accurate.
But when I do it for some reason my $500 night listing that books out a year advance by the way people
booking like the farthest one is 18 months in advance.
It tells me to list it like 250.
Right.
Because something something is wrong that they're not capturing what the essence is allowing me to book
more.
And that is a problem that I've noticed with a lot of the tools out there.
So a lot of the tools out there to tackle this problem of like what do I price it out.
And also I mean people don't want to beat their calendar all the time to constantly be fiddling with
it.
So it leaves out a lot of these like intangibles that really do make a difference and in your listing
some of those tools out there they don't really take into consideration reviews.
Right.
How do they take into consideration for instance in an phatic review.
Someone who writes an emphatic review might as well just add $50 to your per night cost.
Right.
Yes that is just like one person just had a fantastic view you saved their marriage right.
How is that tool going to take into consideration that you know how good of a host you are.
I also didn't really like the fact that like they overly skew towards events.
So like I am San Francisco it it'll be like heaven.
You should raise your price 40 percent for outside lands.
OK.
First of all I'm not going to charge eight hundred dollars a night.
And second of all no plans like no one's booking my space for that like that music concert.
So they're kind of like painting with broad strokes.
And I understand theoretically how that would make sense and emotion for some people it does.
It's just not like a perfect solution so it kind of is a wash for me.
I think also that they're great if you're someone who is like I don't put this up and I want to automate
everything.
Right.
Like I just want it to grow.
And that's just not who I am.
You know like I'm the type of person that's like no I'm quite invested in my entire lectures on how
you can price your calendar correctly and how you can go through and know how to make friends and if
the listing is open tomorrow lower the price till it looks right.
Know all those pricing Joels don't do that.
They actually don't.
I mean it's like they don't take into consideration that hey an unbooked room has lost money.
Exactly.
I think either solvable problems for these tools out there and I think that they're getting a lot better
and I've seen that like over their iteration cycles as they've come out with new versions are getting
better and better and better just for me not yet.
Maybe call me old school ha ha that makes sense and it's narrow.
It's good.
It's a system that you have it's a manual it's can be really unbroken if you really know what you're
doing and if you know it's not as difficult to make it out to be but as you said the automatic pricing
is good for people that want to quit things and set it and forget it and let it roll.
Sure.
Yeah.
We have a question from one of our viewers Len how do you handle bad reviews.
You know do you respond to them.
Do you like.
Do you get all up in arms you freak out about it.
What do you do when you have a bad review.
I mean I'm sure you haven't had one or.
And you know you know fueling questions from your course.
People have had bad reviews.
What advice do you give to people who have bad reviews.
After I'm done like squaring off or be for ever.
No it's happened to me.
Honestly I'm not an angel.
I've had I've had not really like overly negative but not happy.
Wow OK so yeah I actually in my course I do have a framework that I had kind of developed over two and
a half years for how I dress negative reviews and there are a lot of techniques that you can use to
not only prevent them but get rid of them.
And then I cover in my course of the more controversial techniques that I don't necessarily endorse.
But if you kind of look at it from OK what are the main concerns that are happening.
They're complaining about frequently.
Right now not even initially address those.
OK.
Well maybe something happened to you did not anticipate.
Right.
You can go and for instance using experience smoothing techniques like gifts are fantastic way of preventing
them before they happen.
You know there's a lot of different situations where you know and then all you can do is when the review
period comes up this is what I always do.
Right.
I always message them my review first and then I tell them what I put right really hard for someone
to give you a negative review if you just told them that you gave them a positive review.
Right.
That'll kill 60 percent in the bud right there.
But should you ever get to the nuclear option or sun actually close yet.
There are some options.
I mean you can still hear a dialogue with them and consider the economic impact of what this is going
to do to your listing.
Right.
If it's the case that the you know you're not going to be running for a while maybe you don't want to
address it but if it is the case that basically hurt them and seriously damage your income in future
what's it worth it.
And you can honestly you can buy them off.
I mean that's a lot of time.
A lot of times people are giving reviews and it's not because like they didn't feel like you're responsive
they feel like the amount they paid isn't matched to the experience they got right.
Well if you lower the amount of money you can kind of reach an equilibrium point.
Right.
Yeah.
It's kind of like hey I'll give you 200 bucks back.
Like I'm so sorry.
Like I don't ever want this to be the case.
I work hard and make sure that they understand your circumstance right.
Like people are human.
Yes.
They ultimately want you to change something.
Right.
They want you to improve.
Not everybody out there is callous.
They don't want to like scar you with something forever.
They just want to feel like their issues than rock.
Yeah they want to be heard and they just want to you know be noticed and be taken care of.
You said it can be it can be nipped in the bud as being very proactive and getting your your guest review
out there you know and let them know.
I think that's a fantastic tip is something we explain on our Web site as well.
Just really make sure that you're getting it be proactive about this review system seriously and give
them an outlet for giving you feedback.
Right.
Yeah that's another one.
I always text I guess it when I'm in town in the middle of there other thing all I tax them and the
like anything I can help with.
Right.
Because I do not want a submarine issue.
I don't want something to pop up only on the review.
Yes.
So if you give them the opportunity to feel heard the opportunity to voice their concerns.
OK Alan.
Yeah I mean that that kills most of them.
That's good.
You know instant book it's you know a feature that a lot of hosts use when at what point do you recommend
host start using instant book or should they be screening all their guests you know down to the T or
you know what are your thoughts on instant book.
Well I mean so first of all you know by my opinion on security.
Right.
Yeah exactly.
Very lax.
I'm like open borders anybody comb.
Anybody go.
Yeah.
Instead books so typically when I'm working with someone or talking to one of my guests or one of my
students on the phone I tell them it is it something that you need to wait till you have some stripes.
Right.
You need to wait till you've had some bad experiences know you can respond to them and you've gotten
to a point where it's become a little bit redundant.
Right.
Like you know all the things that can go wrong.
You know the main issues you know how to solve them you need to wait till you have you've been in the
dirt a little bit before you do and that book but if you want to maximize your income infant book you
have to do it.
I'm sorry like it if you don't have instant book you're not going to be on the front page and honestly
like some people don't care because they can get plenty of bookings on the second page third page.
And you know power to you but if you're trying to maximize then you should do the book to be honest.
And another thing people need to understand is that like a lot of issues and it's like anybody could
show up.
Right.
Like some just gobble it is going to show up there great go.
Everybody does.
I mean you could set this in your answer book for it.
You can send us an answer but you can always say like only instead book two people who have positive
reviews you can say only instead of book to people who have been ID verified.
Right.
So you are technically screening them.
And I think is once you become popular why the people that are booking my space I wouldn't even have
enough time or information to make a decision about whether or not I want them to book.
Right.
So you have to plan for all comers and plan accordingly.
And that should set you up to do and to book it in a book like no joke it's it's you will bump your
revenue by 20 30 percent like everybody is OK with it but that's know more money or more people means
more money and you know that's a good way to pay for charities too.
If you do want to be choosy.
Exactly.
So that kind of leads into the next question.
How do you minimize the risk of squatters or nightmare type of guests because they know we see the media
sensationalizing a lot of the bad stuff.
And I know that kind of keeps you like hear my mother talk to me about air being abused you get all
real nervous about it.
But it's not something she was scared of.
You know how do you minimize the risk of squatters or nightmare type of guests.
Do you have any tips for the squatters.
Man Yeah is it all in the news or in the end.
It's a very small percentage but you know I mean some people think about it crosses their mind.
You know do you have any thoughts.
The amount of people that actually squatted in air and be looking.
It's like a rounding error.
Like literally like how many times have we had this happen 10 times.
The only bookings they had seriously like what is like a hundred million or something.
So your odds of like getting struck by lightning three times in a row are like what's that stat like
take back by a polar bear and a grizzly bear in the same day.
That's roughly a quibble equivocal did having a squatter.
Yes the squatters.
So what they're basically doing is taking advantage of local laws.
OK.
And yes this is a problem.
San Francisco two and a half years are a rumor.
You didn't hear from me in San Francisco.
There actually were a couple called off its They were caught suggesting to people who are homeless that
a huge Arab unity is a squatting mechanism.
Yeah.
Just what kind of an NGO is that seriously.
So the ways that you get around this one.
And you'll notice this with all of these types of guest interactions is that there's a certain point
at which you get tenants rights.
Right.
And some voices have been saying we low require some reasonable ones.
But the point is is that like like all of the stories that you look at them it's like well the I need
state for a grid at him to do him for two months.
OK.
You're running it for two months that the guy is a tenant right and you need a plan for that.
So one of the things is just like be more scrutinized more if you're getting these two month rentals
right now.
Honestly if you're interested in doing a month long rental get a traditional sublet.
I mean who's going to pay the light per night hotel costs of the night tourist costs to rent this for
a month.
Anyway she throws some red flags anyway right.
You don't ever.
Also do not ever take money off of the system.
It's not worth it.
It just isn't worth it.
Right.
And at the other one like the squatter in Sarasota or whatever she got caught because it's like she
didn't like.
She took money off the system.
Right.
And then the guy lied about how long he was in the building and had no way of proving it right.
Yes.
So everybody was there for like a month.
He claimed to be there for like three months or whatever the threshold was to get tenants rights.
And that's how he got around it.
So to just don't do that for one screw.
Nice long term booking to induce a basic research Honestly I figured out very quickly how long you could
be in a space free of tenants rights.
It's Francisco like don't quote me on it but it's like two weeks or something right but they're at a
rental.
So be aware of try to scrutinize it as much as possible.
If this does happen and you are that person is like the most unlucky person in the world.
Everybody has been quite fancy.
I mean it like that again.
One of the stories like local news story like to lose news outlets was harping on this stuff right.
They're not harping on the air being the orgy that happened in New York City probably had it's hilarious
but they always like talk about you know this is the terrible thing that happened.
They might in one sentence or whatever being we did and that's just totally not fair.
Everyone be like wired them huge chunks of money they hired surveillance teams they paid for all the
legal fees they put them in like a better apartment or own like just you guys have aligned incentives
they'll take care of you.
But in general yeah I mean that's an issue but as you just try to be a little more thoughtful about
how you plan for long term guests and try not I wouldn't use MBB for long term goals.
That's probably the biggest one.
Exactly.
That can dig away 99 percent of the risk great there.
And also is asking for you know very extended stay to show some of the red flags right away.
What like if you know if like the cutoff date was the 24 days to be a tenant to give tenants law in
the state for 25 days.
Like come on.
Like you get 25 days.
Exactly.
Your real name.
All right well that's all the questions I have I checked our e-mail there's not really any other questions
but we do have a special offer for the guests that were able to stick around to the end.
Evan has been very very generous to offer his course for a limited time price of forty nine dollars.
He just has a live visit.
Learn Air B and B dot com slash course to take advantage of this offer.
It will not last long it's a limited time offer.
I mean you've you've given us so much knowledge in just this past hour and a half I can only imagine
how deep the course goes.
You said it's about 15 hours and 118 lectures correct.
Area Yeah 15 years.
And it's getting longer too as I get more and more feedback and we turn into more very come up with
a couple more lectures from the three.
Yeah exactly.
Good.
So you know we'll post the details up on the event page but make sure that you guys take advantage of
this very generous offer from Evan.
And you know make sure you take advantage of this it's it's it's something that if you educate yourself
and not keeping up with the new developments in how to become a better host you just want to be successful
or as successful as you possibly could be.
I'm going to check one more time she gets to book me with tons and tons of questions right.
Exactly.
You have it you have an instructor on demand all the time.
You know I need a personal tutor a personal tutor for urban Beanie's.
And the response time is only about 30 minutes or an hour.
So have you but now you've done a line that can help.
Right.
Unless you're sleeping.
You've done a lot to actually propel hosts into that super host status.
And what I want the viewers to know is that that can happen for them too if they take advantage of taking
this course checking more time as she has any more questions.
And if not we will let you go let me see one more time.
I do not see anything else coming through.
So again Evan thank you very much for taking the time to explain how to become a super hosts to the
learn the community and to the viewers if there's any questions that pop up if you're watching this
on a replay.
Please make sure you can e-mail us at Info learn M.B.A. dot com and take advantage of that special offer
learn Air B and B dot com slash course and you can save $250 in the air B the host training course today.
Evan again thank you very much.
Really really really appreciate your time.
It's been fun.
Thanks Jim.
All right guys thank you very much everybody have a great day.